.\" $Id: recoll.1,v 1.3 2007-11-13 18:42:18 dockes Exp $ (C) 2005 J.F.Dockes\$
.TH RECOLL 1 "8 January 2006"
.SH NAME
recoll \- user interface for the Recoll full text search system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recoll
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-c
<configdir>
]
[
.B \-L
<lang>
]
[
.B \-w
]
[
.B \-o
|
.B \-l
|
.B \-f
|
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-q
<query>
]

.B recoll -t
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-c
<configdir>
]
[
.B \-o
|
.B \-l
|
.B \-f
|
.B \-a
]
[
.B \-q
<query>
]

.B recoll
[
.B \-c
<configdir>
]
<url>
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the first form, the
.B recoll
command will start the index query graphical user interface. On the first run, this will create the
user configuration which can be customized before starting the index creation.
.PP
In the second form (with a
.B \-t
option),
.B recoll
will behave like the
.B recollq
command. It will not start a GUI, but will run the query and output the results to the
terminal (standard output). This will also be the case if
.B recoll
is called as 
.B recollq
through a link. Additional options understood by the 
.B recollq
command may be specified in this case. These can control the output format and the maximum number of
results to be printed.  Please refer to the command help obtained through the
.B \-t \-h
options, or to the
.B recollq
manual page for a full description.
.PP
The 
.B \-c 
option specifies the configuration directory name, overriding the
default or $RECOLL_CONFDIR.
.PP
With the 
.B \-w
option, the GUI starts minimized, which can be useful for starting it automatically with the
desktop.
.B \-W
is similar, but will only show a system tray icon. It can only be used if the system tray option is
set in the preferences.
.PP
The 
.B \-q 
option can be used to specify an initial query on the command line. This
query will be interpreted by default as a query language string.
If
.B \-a 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I all words
simple search query. If 
.B \-o 
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as an
.I any word
simple search query. If 
.B \-f
is specified, the query string will be interpreted as a
.I file name
simple search query. If 
.B \-l
is specified (or, by default, without any option), the query string will be interpreted as a
.I query language
simple search query.
.PP
In the third form, the 
.B recoll
command can be used to start a native viewer for a document indexed by
Recoll. It will understand a final URL fragment (separated by a '#'
character) to indicate an 
.I ipath
, the specifier for the part of the Recoll document access path which is internal to a container
such as a mbox folder or a zip archive, and will, if needed, create a temporary file to let a normal
system utility display the document. This form is mostly used for opening embedded documents from
an external desktop search interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP 
recollindex(1) recollq(1) recoll.conf(5) 
